Guide to Being a Writer

Hello my name is Ryan and I am going to tell you how to be a writer!

Why I Enjoy My Hobby

I enjoy my hobby because it's one of the only ways for me to voice the beauty and internal strife that I feel exists within me. I also use writing
sometimes as means to just tell a fun story. I feel writing allows me to draw from both personal experiences and the things that I observe and learn. 
Writing, for me, can feel, sometimes, like the only way to work my way through a challenging circumstance.  

The Key Components to Improving!

I feel reading and writing on a regular basis are the most integral aspects to becoming a good writer. If you take copious notes on how your influences put together
their writing, you start to gradually form your own style. I feel like truly pulling it together under the umbrella of your unique voice is a process of trial
and error, construction and critique. I feel like with many specific skills, or even skills within skills, such as copywriting, becoming good is a matter of
building things and having them torn down over and over again. 

My Influences and How They Can Perhaps Be Influences For You Too!

Some of the early influences on my writing were Chuck Palahniuk, Bret Easton Ellis, and somewhat later Cormack McCarthy and Herman Melville. Later I found 
myself enjoying novels with a more romantic slant, such as F Scott Fitzgerald's various gilded-era opuses, or contemporary fare like Before We Were Strangers
by Renee Carlino. To write the sort of prose I write now, prose being your choice of words and how they flow, it involves a lot of trial and error, knowing when to reel my writing in
and when to shoot for the stars. It is about taking on influences and shedding them until you are able to fully express yourself, with gradually less pretense 
getting in the way of your true writing voice. Nothing will further improve your craft than reading consistently and widely, writing consistently, pushing yourself,
and seeking our people who can provide valid critiques for your work. 

Also, sometimes really cranking out what you want to crank out requires going into monk mode and just writing for days straight. 
I often find myself putting on a little weight when I pump out the first draft of a novel and I let myself have treats like the one posted below. 

Taking Influence on Style & Themes

I feel Blood Meridian was the novel that truly instilled in me a love for what language was capable of doing, and while I over did it some, 
using too much flashy language, which I still do from time to time, I definitely made progress. 
I feel this is a great book for people to try reading, just because of the sheer beauty of its prose.
It also does a great job with juxstoposition, the opposing and paralell aspects of its beautiful prose and extremely dark contents. 
Here is a list of some of my favorite intense and linguistically beautiful novels, with links to buy them, that you might take inspiration from!

The Personal Meets the Fictional: How Real Experience Can Inform One's Work

I feel some of F Scott Fitzgerald's work really intersected strongly with some of my personal experiences. Sometimes your art and the art you consume moves like two flames
that breathe together onto a thick stubborn fuse. They collude, reality and fiction, to assemble a more final product. Zelda Fitzgerald was the definitive muse to F Scott Fitz Gerald,
and they did much harm to each other, although it's debatable if either one of them could have been saved no matter what. This marriage of reality and inspiration, funneling into your own work
can be one of the most powerful drivers for writing. Here is a list of some of my favorite personally evocative novels, with links to buy them, that you might also take inspiration from!

Fantastical Versus the Grounded

I also write fantasy, which tends to involve less personal catharsis. It's strange though how fiction can evoke such strong emotions, at times, from scenarios 
that are purely fantastical in their worlds. Of course, most all fiction draws from personal experience in some shape or another. I'd even say that in my case,
my fantasy evokes more gutwrench emotion out of the reader than my more personally inspired writing. I would say that fantasy creates a state of mind, while my literary fiction
, and much literary fiction, is more bent on evoking pre-existing parts of the self. Here is a list of some of my favorite fantasy and genre novels, with links to buy them, that you might also take inspiration from! 

The Long Wait...

It's all very tricky business, nailing on all the needed intangibles to make the best possible work. Art is subjective and the best artists are often not given their due.
It's sad to think of all the artists that were not truly recognized until after their deaths, like Herman Melville of Moby Dick fame, or which artists did not become
widely recognized for many years, such as Cormac McCarthy who wrote the Road, Blood Meridian, and No Country for Oldmen.

We Each Have Our Own Vision

Ultimately, it is up to the writer to express their own vision and create something that is worthy of finding an audience. Ultimately, it is up to the writer to express their own vision and create something that is worthy of finding an audience. I'm not a huge Stephen King fan, but his book On-Writing is a fantastic resource! 
Check out Stephen King talking about his writing technique. 
The next step is getting that audience's attention,
but that's a whole different matter, mostly pertaining to marketing.   

Apendix Resources
  

